you're just starting out on your Google
Ads journey you just get started you're
starting to read all these articles
these blogs you're confused and you're
wondering what tips can I get as a
beginner in Google Ads and what I'm
gonna talk about in this video is what I
would tell my younger self if I can go
back in time what I would tell myself
when I was just starting out with Google
Ads and the tips I'd give myself that
had really benefitted me and my own
personal experience
by the way my name is Sylvia Perez and I
create content every week on PPC
advertising so if you like that kind of
stuff feel free to subscribe to the
channel now the first thing I would tell
my younger self is to create a task list
I mean I can't tell you when you're just
starting out in Google Ads everything
can become very overwhelming there's so
many different things you're reading
from blog articles or YouTube videos
like this or just courses you're taking
or whatever it might be but there's so
much information out there and there's
so many different things people say you
should be doing when it comes to your
accounts that you can get overwhelmed
really fast so something that's really
helped me tremendously in my journey in
improving my Google Ads accounts and
becoming a better at Google ads campaign
manager is having a task list it's so
easy when we jump into our Google Ads
accounts to get overwhelmed or to get
distracted but by having a task list
basically a to-do list of the things you
need to do every week every you know
every two weeks or every month depending
on what your schedule allows so that
when you go into your accounts you have
a game plan and you can check it off as
you go and you can be more effective
with your time I remember when I was
just starting out to give you a real
example it would take me forever to just
manage one account and I remember at the
time I was really struggling just to
manage you know one of three accounts
because I had no organization and I
didn't have a task list in place so what
I would do is I'll get into the accounts
and instead of being very concise on
what it is I need to do and getting it
done for example doing things like bid
changes right so you should be doing bid
changes often if you're using manual CPC
bidding or adding negative keywords and
looking through your search terms report
things like that or add testing and
creating you ad copy so you can be
testing it on a you know consistent
basis I remember I would just hop into
my accounts and I would get lost in the
audience data
or something you know there's so many
shiny buttons in the Google ads
interface that it's so easy to get you
know lost and confused so creating a
task list is by far the the number one
thing I would tell myself going back is
create a task list so that way when you
go into these accounts you're much more
effective and you get what needs to be
done done and the other thing as well is
in your task list something that's
really helped me is scheduling the the
timeframe for certain thing so for
example like some things like ad testing
for example I let it run for about two
weeks and depending on the size of your
account maybe that's too much but ad
testing I usually let run for two weeks
so I can get enough data so before when
I didn't have that you know frame of
mind of that structure if you will of
okay every two weeks we're gonna review
our ad tests and having it in my task
list I would be so quick to make
decisions and I would jump really
quickly you know I wouldn't allow things
to accumulate into accrue the data
require to be able to make a
statistically significant decision so
the number one thing I would tell my
younger self as a beginner is create a
task list it's really gonna allow you to
ease your mind with the overwhelm and
it's really gonna allow you to be more
effective when you go into your accounts
and allow you to leverage yourself in a
more effective way so that you can
manage more accounts and take on more
work the second thing I would tell
myself is to schedule maintenance I'm
sure you guys probably heard this but
the number one thing really when it
comes to improving your accounts the
number one thing really comes to the
amount of attention you give your
accounts so the second thing I would
tell myself is create a schedule I use
Google Calendar and I scheduled into my
Google Calendar when I need to manage
certain accounts and I have that set up
every week for all the different
accounts I have routine management
scheduled in alongside with that task
list is a very powerful combination
that's really gonna allow you to drive
success with your your Google Ads
campaigns or your clients Google ads
campaigns if you manage it for other
people that's really gonna allow you to
leverage the success of your time and
making sure that these accounts get the
attention they require I remember I used
to work back in the agency world before
I started doing this full-time on my own
and
I remember in the agency world there was
a lot of accounts that these agencies
would take on and they say that they're
getting the attention they require but
they really aren't and the reason why is
because there is no task list in place
and there is no routine scheduled
maintenance so make sure you really do
schedule in that maintenance and
something as well is when it comes to
success with Google Ads it's really you
know don't get lost in all the shiny
objects and the crazy like a bee test or
like the the latest fad or trend or
whatever it really is just the
fundamental stuff like making sure
you're getting in the right search is
making sure your keywords more money is
going is being spent to the keywords
that are are providing returns and less
money to the keywords that aren't
working you know it really is that
foundational stuff just like anything
else in life right with like if it's
diet and weight loss its foundational
stuff you know it's eat well workout
exercise it's no different when it comes
to improving your Google Ads campaigns
it is that foundational stuff that's
really going to allow you to drive
success over the long term and having
that task list with those two do's you
got to do whatever that time frame is
and schedule it into some sort of
calendar system and keeping yourself
accountable is really gonna allow you to
get ahead and really make sure you're
having some awesome Google Ads campaigns
and then the last thing I would tell
myself if I can go back in time and this
is something that I kind of just did
naturally because how I got started with
Google Ads was I had a DJ service
business that I started with my cousin
and I used that business to learn Google
ads to get more parties for our business
so this is something that I kind of did
naturally and I'm glad I'm grateful that
I did but if I had to tell someone what
I would tell them is to dive in don't
just you know get caught up in learning
and studying and stuff like for example
I didn't even know there was a Google
Ads certification until I decided like
to do this as a career and go full on
that I learned about the certification
but I didn't even know it was a thing
and there's so many people that I've
talked to that I've came across over
this time that you know they don't start
until they get Google Ad certified or
til they finish some course there's
always something inhibiting them from
actually getting inside an account and
getting real experience and that's how
you're really going to learn I'll give
you a great example
when I started in the beginning I
remember specifically the problems I
encountered and the first problem I had
was I could never see my ad my ad was
never being shown so that kind of leads
you to a question of okay well why is it
my ad being seen so then you learn
things about things like a drink how a
drink works and how that's factored in
and then one problem you solve it and it
leads you to the next one so the next
one was okay my ads are getting
impressions they're getting seen but
nobody's clicking on my ads what's going
on here so then that leads you to learn
things about well how do you get people
to click on your ads oh you got to make
sure you write compelling ad copies so
how do you write ad copy and then you
solve that problem and oh there's these
things called ad extensions that make
your ads bigger and and provide the user
with more information so then you learn
about ad extensions and then one problem
you solve in the new next solve the next
problem solve the next problem sell the
next problem and before you know it you
are you know killing the game and you're
and you're just making some great
campaigns and it never stops you're
always solving problems as you go so
that's the last tip I would give a
beginner is to dive in yes do your
research yes study but but I would say
go head in first right and then you know
figure it out on the way and that's
really the biggest thing I would tell
you and the other thing is well when it
comes to just getting started if you
don't have the luxury of your own
business that you can create your own
Google ads campaigns if I didn't have
that what I would do is I would just
reach out to local businesses and offer
to work for free there is nothing wrong
with that if you're just getting started
and be fully transparent with them just
say hey look I I just started learning
about Google ads and I just took this
course and I learned all this great
information and I would love to apply
this to your business but to be quite
honest with you this is my first time
doing this so if you're comfortable with
that you know it'll be free of charge
but I will be here every step of the way
and I guarantee you that I will make it
work you know so you can get started you
get experience you can start building
case studies and testimonials and all
that good stuff but honestly I remember
like it was yesterday you know so I can
really resonate with that on you know
you're just starting out and it's so
overwhelming especially with the world
of the internet we live in and paid
advertising be so confusing it's so
complex but honestly getting a task list
scheduling routine may
and diving in and learning as you go is
the best tips I can give you that I
think of that I can think of right now
and then the other thing too that kind
of just popped in my head right now is
focus on the fundamentals always and
when it comes to paid advertising and
paid search something I really want to
emphasize to you is at the end of the
day all we're doing is we're getting the
right message to the right person at the
right time that's it so whether we do
that with Google ads or we do that with
Facebook ads those different platforms
are just tools so don't get so caught up
in the tool itself that you don't
understand the big picture on what's
going on so learn things like psychology
and marketing psychology and the
different stages of the buying process
on how people go from not knowing who
you are to having familiar with you to
making a decision so really understand
the psychology of what's going on so
that way you can transcend just the
platform you're in I remember early on
because I just started with Google Ads I
was the first platform I did I was so
focused on Google ads and I didn't
really understand why I was offering a
free consultation and why a free
consultation would work versus when I
would go to something like Facebook and
offer a free consultation it just fell
on its face and would never work and the
reason why it doesn't work is because
the luxury of search engines is you're
bidding on keywords where people already
have that desire they already want to
see a doctor or see a plumber or
whatever it might be so that way that in
that case a free consultation is a great
offer because they already have that
intent in that desire so you're meeting
them with where they're at first if you
go to like social media for example they
might be interested in let's say
plumbing for you know but it doesn't
mean they have that desire and they're
really they're ready to take that step
so on social media you're probably gonna
have to offer them something less
threatening and and then kind of
transition them from that point so I
hope that makes sense but really those
are the the tips I would give a beginner
and I what I would tell my younger self
is again number one get a task list
number two make sure you schedule
routine maintenance in some sort of
calendar system and be and hold yourself
accountable and actually do it
routine management is the key and then
the third one was to just dive in and
and get in there and really get your
hands-on experience and as you encounter
problems you know look up solutions so
don't just learn to learn learn to apply
apply the information you're receiving
and that way you'll move forward faster
so that's gonna be it for this video I
hope you got some value from this if you
did feel free to like the video that
really helps me out so more people can
see this kind of information it really
helps with the algorithm on YouTube so
my video gets ranked higher so I would
really appreciate that if you got some
value from this and if you like content
like this on Google ads on pay-per-click
advertising feel free to subscribe to
the channel as well I create content
every week I'll see you next time have a
great day take care
[Music]